Deputy Public Prosecutor Jeremy Bin said that the offender had come home at around 6.30pm on July 23, 2024, and found out that the victim had helped Eylaiza’s five-year-old daughter put on a jacket.

 
Court documents stated that the little girl was the one who had wanted to wear the garment as she thought that it was pretty.

DPP Bin said: “The accused was unhappy with this, believing her daughter would feel too hot, and instructed the victim to do 20 squats while saying the Malay words ‘saya bodoh’, which means ‘I am stupid’ in English. The victim (complied).”

In an unrelated incident, Eylaiza took her then five-month-old son to KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital (KKH) at around 5am on March 6, 2024, as he was coughing.
The baby was hospitalised with her consent, and staff told her that he had bronchitis.

Without revealing details, the DPP said: “Throughout the day, the accused became increasingly dissatisfied with the level of care provided by the hospital.

“She then informed KKH staff that she would be discharging her son... despite KKH doctors advising otherwise, as her son was suffering from a serious medical condition.”

Eylaiza was then asked to sign a “discharge against medical advice” form, but she refused to do so.

Instead, she began raising her voice at the KKH staff, including a nurse clinician, demanding that they provide a memorandum stating that they had not rendered any treatment to her son.

Shortly before 10pm that day, Eylaiza called the police and said: “I am having issues with the doctor here who (refused) to let me and my child leave.”

Police officers arrived at the scene and she also raised her voice at them.

She refused to lower her voice or continue the conversation in a separate room away from public view even though the police officers asked to do so more than 10 times.

Eylaiza also falsely claimed that the police officers pushed her and told one of them that he was “so sassy like a girl”.
When the officer asked her what she had said, she moved closer to him and repeated the phrase two more times.

Eylaiza also berated the nurse clinician, and used a vulgar word against the older woman.

Among other things, the offender said: “I also work in a clinic... We know how it is supposed to run. We don’t provide this kind of... service... You better think before you talk because you might not be as bright.”

———